In this lesson, we'll create a new device website in the sandbox to start using a different layout
that takes advantage of a predesigned style guide with included matching global presets.
You'll import one or more page layouts and then import and explore a style guide into the DV library
supplied by elegant themes in the DV blog.
By the end of this video, you'll understand how importing or creating a style guide with global presets
can result in a resource you can use in designing and revising the designs of a particular website.
Making your work more streamlined and allowing for editing certain repeated design elements globally.
Let's take another look at a use case for style guides and the global presets that we were just talking
about in the last lesson.
Now this one is a big deal.
You can use and import pre-designed style guide and templates that provide you with a number of different
presets already set up for some of the layout packs in DV or using this and figuring out how they how
it works will teach you how to do it yourself.
And so let's go ahead and create a new site.
I'm going to go into my account page here and you can do the same.
I'm just going to add a new site and we're going to use a sample layout called estate planning.
Oh, the address, the title is going to be a state.
So let me just paste that in there.
Estate planning?
I'll spell it right.
And I usually put my initials in front so that other people using the same name is not already used,
but you just click add sight, as you saw before earlier in the course and then we have a new site ready
to go.
So I'll click Dashboard.
And now that I have that new site, what we want to do is bring in at least one page that uses that
estate planning layout pack.
Let's just look under divvy layouts.
If I type the word estate, I can see that.
There we go.
If I just click any of the pages there, here's the landing page you can see this is a particular design.
It has seven layouts in the pack.
And if I wanted to bring in all the different pages, I totally could.
And you could do that if you want to pause the video and bring these pages in to start playing with
the global presets and the style guide, we're going to use and start playing with this website.
I'll just bring in the landing page as a start because it has a lot of the different areas and different
styles in there.
Now, actually, before I do that, I just realized looking at the typography there that I do need to
go into themes as usual and activate the device theme first.
And that would have been one of the first things I'd want to do.
And then also under permalink, I prefer to bring in change it to a post name and save changes there
and then settings reading.
Of course, I can change the home page to that landing page later so that I have easy navigation to
it.
So I could just go to pages all pages.
Click Add New and I'll bring in this landing page.
Just call it landing and click Use Divvy Builder.
And just quickly bring in this layout to play with and then you'll be able to to see how it works with
the global presets style guide that we're going to import from the elegant themes website.
So let's see a state.
That brings in some of the lads here, there's also one called real estate that I found from using the
word estate, but I'll just pick the landing page here and click.
Use this layout and I'll let that import.
Gives me that progress bar only takes a couple of seconds to bring in the layout again, depending on
how many images and graphics there are to bring from the elegant themed server into the sandbox server
here.
And so great, I've got a nice looking page layout.
I'll publish it.
All right.
So let's go back into the dashboard, and next, let's go over to the Elegant Themes blog and take a
look at what we can find for a global.
Preset style guide.
So I'm just going to go to the bottom of the page and click blog.
Often what I'll do is look for.
Style guide to see what layout pack layout packs have a prebuilt style guide built for them.
The first one you'll find if you search for style guide is the estate planning one.
And so if we click that blog post, this is a really good tutorial on how to use the global style guide,
its global preset style guides, and similar to bringing in, you know, a header and footer, you can
just, you know, click the button.
It brings you down to the enter your email address and you can just if you're already on the email list,
it doesn't matter.
You can use the same email address.
You won't be joining twice, then you get the download button right here.
Great, so now I just click download the files, it brings it into my downloads folder as a zip file,
and you can unzip that or extract it to gain access to the JSON file right there.
But here's a quick overview It'd be a good little tutorial just to glance through, but I'm going to
show you exactly how this works in this lesson as a part of the Divvy course and DV section of the course.
Part two.
So a quick overview of global presets.
We've done that already in the previous lesson, but then this is a style guide framework and and so
you can build global presets style guides from scratch as opposed to using one that's based on a layout
pack.
And this link right here gives you access to a kind of a blank style guide framework that you can bring
into your site and then build to match the layout that you already have.
And so if there isn't a style guide already built for a layout pack, you're using and divvy.
You can build your own based on that style guide, and it's pretty easy to do.
Gives you a super powerful way to do it.
So there's two options when you bring in a style guide.
You can upload all the global presets from that style guide at once into your entire site, which I
would recommend.
Or you can go down to Option B, and that is to selectively turning on modules and making them into
presets one at a time.
If you don't want all the presets in your website, it won't make a difference as far as speed for the
loading speed of your website on the front end or anything.
It's just if you want to be a little more selective as far as which styles, and you can bring them
in one at a time.
But this is all I need now that I have that style guide in my downloads folder, I can go in here and
what we'll do is bring it into the Div library directly.
So you open Div Library under Divi Divi Library and then you use this import and export button.
But first, I'm going to go into the Downloads folder and find this zip file, and I'm going to use
right click Extract all four windows, or you can double click for a Mac if you're using Apple.
And so now I've got this JSON file right here.
Now that it's ready, I could click import and export, just click import, and I'll choose a file.
Let's go to that downloads folder.
Find that Jason file and click open.
And now here's where you select, whether you're going to import the presets all at once or not.
So I do like to import all the presets, especially since we're just checking out the functionality
of having a US style guide.
And so now I'll just click import the DV builder layouts.
It's going to take a little bit of time to bring that in, usually a couple of seconds.
What is it estimating one minute, but after what, two seconds?
I'm already done.
OK, so once that checks and it finishes, it will open up the DV library.
And now I have a new DV library item and it's a layout that like the similar, a full page layout like
we've seen before.
And if we click that now, it opens a page editor that's similar to similar to using, you know, a
page editor as editing a page or a blog post using the DV builder.
But it starts you out in the wireframe view here, and if you scroll down, you can see that they're
kind of divided into sections.
There's a bunch of, you know, text modules, dividers, images, there's images in different columns,
there's different column numbers.
There's all kinds of things in here, and you can look at this and build on the front end as well.
And so you can edit this style guide.
And so if we click build on the front end, let's inspect this global presets style guide and just take
a look at what it is.
So it's labeled at the top.
These ones that you bring in from DV are labeled with a title.
And there's even a link to a tutorial for using this.
That was a link to this tutorial right here.
So that's within the style guide itself.
But as we look, here's where the power of it's going to come to light for you.
You can see that it's got six colors that are already created as a palette for the whole site.
And it's what this layout pack is using as a color pack.
There's visuals like icons.
These are images that are being used as icons added to your media library when you bring in pages and
this layout pack anyway.
And there's, you know these images.
They're all set up as different modules.
For example, if I open up one of the modules settings, you can see that this preset is in here by
default, but there's a number of different active.
Presets, so this is the estate planning layout pack E.P. L.P..
This is an H1 one or an H1 two.
For example, a tech, this is a text preset.
And so oops, let me just get out of here.
Let's go down and continue to look.
These are just some image presets images that you can actually save.
These are actually text.
These are for designing with text on top of an image, and you can see how that works as far as this
layout pack when you go into your site and take a look at it.
But this has a background image with it's a colored, transparent overlay and a background image that
looks like this.
So there's all these pre-designed layouts.
Now this is one of the visuals.
So visuals, you know, there are these text or these images here that's just an image.
And so you can inspect the layout pack and see what all the different resources are that you have here.
Now here's where the power of it really might come to light for you, too, with the typography, the
headings and the sizes of headings and the fonts that are used for the headings.
Also, the font and size of the body text.
We have a matching heading font and body text font that are used in the site itself.
So let's go back.
I'm opening another tab and let's go in here and check out the the I'm just going to view, say, under
estate planning and check it out now.
Of course, my home page isn't set yet, but if I open landing, then I'll go ahead and see how this
global presets style guide is impacting the design on this layout pack page.
So you could see some of these different, you know, these are some of the different visuals that were
available.
This is a blurb, I believe, using some of those different visuals that are pre designed for you.
There's the typography is visible here.
It's just a beautiful layout.
But not only that, this layout has all these resources right down here.
So here's the typography.
Here's a and a text module with everything all in one text block, so you can just see an example of
what things would look like if you put text in here.
It different different things that are already set.
So this is an all text preset.
So if I open up this preset, you could see this is the layout pack preset that we have called all text
one.
If we edit it, then we get that grey window and we can see, like, what are the design options?
The heading text.
So there's an each one.
It's designed with a particular font and a particular size and color, and then the H2, the three,
the edge for it is all pre designed for us, including the font.
You know, the way that it's displayed the color, even as far as the mobile responsive settings for
those font settings.
So the power of using these presets and importing them into.
Your your your layout is super apparent when you look at these presets right here.
So then down past the headings, you know, there's other different design things.
There's a what do they call?
Let's see, I got a little stall right here.
These are blurbs, so these are blurb modules that have been frequently used in this layout pack, so
blurb one blurb you can see they have some different looks to them.
These are other modules.
So you know, we've got a divider, the number counter.
All these are pre-designed modules that are already in the layout now.
And so, OK, here's where the power of it comes into play.
You know what?
I'll just go back.
Let's go to the bottom of this layout pack.
There's a video that's styled a contact form and email opt in.
There's an accordion layout.
The video has rounded corners, a certain size of play button.
The there's a slider layout where you can, you know, have this is designed as a testimonial slider.
The blog archive is even designed inside of here.
And then different columns.
So different column layouts right there.
And so, you know, I'm going to go ahead and just exit visual builder discard any of my changes here.
So this is just a reference so you can find what you're looking for visually if you're going to use
these global presets, once you kind of know what's there and when you're, you know, visually designing
a page or editing the design of a page, if you're in the visual builder, you know, supposed down
here, say in this in this section, I want to go down here and you know, I'm going to add add a section
below this one right here.
Let's go ahead and add a section.
And you know, I'm just going to make it a regular section.
We'll have a nice white background in here.
I'll make it one row.
And if I wanted to add say, I wanted to add a blurb module.
Now the blurb module by default in DV looks like this.
It has an image and you could have either an image or an icon that you can choose if you use an icon.
Then you know you can choose which icon you want to use and it places it in there by default.
But now, of course, we're using the default layout and the typography is not right.
The header size isn't right.
But if we just go in and decide, OK, you know what I'm going to do, I want to use the blurb too.
So there it is now.
This is taking the full with the taking the full width of the content area here.
But now that changes the typography into really what the style guide shows us.
And so you can really see the power of this here.
If I go, maybe I want to do a three column layout with blurbs and OK, OK, I have the the default
blurb layout there.
But what if I go to blurb layout two and it's using the right typography and I can place an image there?
You know, when I I can, I can style that image.
Instead of placing it on top to the left, I can place it on top.
And the size is already styled.
And then once that's in there, you could just go ahead and, you know, duplicate this two more times
and then drag each one, you know, into its column.
And you've got a really quick way to dis design with the correct typography when you're building new
content inside of pages or even building a new page from scratch.
So that illustrates the real power of the global styles.
It's really powerful and gives you an opportunity to build faster use custom designs.
And even if you're using your own custom unique designs or an imported layout, these style guys are
really important and fast way to design with divvy.